[Music]
you know the saying to have a stroke of
genius that one aha moment when
something incredibly innovative pops
into your brain okay now imagine having
over 3500 of those and a patent for each
dr. yoshihiro Nakamatsu could tell you a
little something about it so let's meet
the wonderfully quirky and undeniably
prolific inventor himself first and
foremost you've got to get his name
right
it sounds like Nakamatsu he just decided
to stop writing it with that final you
because well why not
despite the spelling change it still
pronounced Nakamatsu although if you
really want to flatter him it would be
Sir dr. Nakamatsu as he states that he
was knighted by the sovereign Order of
Malta the order however have denied ever
doing so and this isn't the first time
you'll hear me say something like that
so fair warning
the name aside one thing's for certain
he's been dubbed by many as the Edison
of Japan
even though Thomas Alvin himself only
had 1093 patents and Nakamatsu will
proudly remind you of that and this
guy's got a sense of style as colorful
as his personality even in a city as
crowded as Tokyo you'd probably be able
to spot the mastermind from a mile away
he'd be in a tailor suit all right but
it could be checked pinstriped
zebra-striped full-on velvet embellished
with sparkly patterns and rhinestones or
maybe just a traditional black navy or
grey one with a fun tide to brighten it
up okay I guess to put it in a nutshell
dr. yoshihiro Nakamatsu is a bit
eccentric so you can only imagine what
kind of invention this guy's brain comes
up with they're not only incredibly
numerous but a lot of them are pretty
odd to take for instance his pee on pee
on boots they're pretty much like ski
boots only with circular Springs
attached to the bottom they help you
bounce around town and they look pretty
fun if I'm being honest and yes nineties
kids will be
he reminded of moon shoes from Big Time
toys anyway there's also his self
defense wig with a secret ninja weapon
inside hey his words not mine
in the event of a bad situation you just
take the wig off and throw it at an
enemy he also claims to have invented
the karaoke machine digital watch CDs
and DVDs just to name a few and to
really save time here but probably his
most proud achievement is the creation
of the floppy disk remember those things
back in the day it's okay ask your
parents anyway
if you google who patented the floppy
disk you'll most likely get IBM as the
result but dr. Nakamatsu says it was his
brainchild from way back in 1950 17
years before IBM patented it of course
IBM doesn't recognize Nakamatsu claims
but they did get about a dozen licenses
from him in the 1970s I guess you'll
just have to decide who you agree with
on that one but it's not like this guy
is just some kooky personality claiming
to create things that he really didn't
he's got a lot of respect from both the
public and reputable institutions he was
awarded the first Lifetime Achievement
Award from manhattan-based Museum
no it's not a typo that's how they
writing he was also recognized by the
International Tesla Society as one of
the top 5 most influential scientists of
all time he joined the ranks of Nikola
Tesla himself of course
Archimedes Michael Faraday and Marie
Curie dr. Nakamatsu might not have ended
up being a prolific inventor if he'd
gone with his first choice he said that
he always wanted to be an aircraft
designer and claims to have invented an
automatic center of gravity stabilizer
for airplanes at the tender age of 5 and
that's probably what got the ball
rolling because at 14 he created a
siphon pump to help his mom out in the
kitchen that same pump would later be
sold in stores and used for kerosene yes
he must have been a very bright child
because he'd later go on to study
engineering at the University
Tokio but i'm sure by now you're
wondering how on earth can a person
continue to come up with fresh new ideas
and build up a collection of over 3,500
inventions well the doc has a few tricks
up his sleeves to keep those creative
juices flowing one of them involves
getting in a pool sitting at the bottom
and waiting for an innovative idea to
pop up in his brain he says the process
works and I guess there's no arguing
with the numbers he even invented a
waterproof notepad so that he can jot
these new inventions down while he's
submerged
he's also come up with what he calls the
cerebrum which kind of looks like a
dryer chair you'd see of the
hairdresser's only instead of a clear
dome shaped cap coming down over your
hair Nakamatsu zarm chair pulls a dark
cloth all around your face and head it
also cools down the brain while heating
up the feet which supposedly improves a
mental function there are also special
rooms in his home that serve different
purposes when it comes to brainstorming
there's the calm room that's pretty much
a small bathroom with gold walls where
dr. Nakamatsu can sit and think without
having to worry about TV and radio
frequencies messing with his imagination
he says the gold walls blocked them out
he's also got the movement room where he
sits and listens to Beethoven's fifth
symphony it's technically an elevator
not a room but I'm just splitting hairs
at this point his brain boosting tricks
have also made a home in his eating
habits you see dr. Nakamatsu eats only
one meal a day and he always takes a
picture of his food in fact he's been
taking a picture of each and every one
of these singular daily meals for over
30 years why it helps him analyze food
and understand what suits him better
he even won an Ig Nobel Prize that's
kind of like a light-hearted parody of
the actual Nobel Prize for his
meticulous work in studying the
connection between one's diet and
intelligence but perhaps he's onto
something because this particularities
bout his diet could be saving his life
in 2013 Nakamatsu was diagnosed with
cancer doctors said he didn't look good
and he only had about
year yet here he is continuing to work
and pump out one invention after another
the diagnosis even gave him a sort of
new project he was going to beat it with
ingenuity and invention he created
another type of chair the gang and robot
and a specialty that would help him
fight the illness he even wrote a song
that serves as a cancer treatment by
boosting immunity
well the now 90 year old doc is still
active both physically and mentally
which is mind-blowing to say the least
and he's not even thinking about taking
a rest or retiring dr. Nakamatsu still
considers himself young and only halfway
through his life he said that when he
turns 143 then he might start thinking
about taking a break and you know what I
wouldn't be surprised if this guy has
already created something that will
allow him to live forever he says he
likes to create things because it makes
people all over the world feel happy and
that makes him happy too hmm perhaps his
greatest invention is his attitude and
approach to life I think we could all
benefit from doing it like the
wonderfully eccentric genius and
optimistic dr. yoshihiro Nakamatsu so
which of Nakamatsu inventions would you
like to try out I've still got my eyes
on those bouncy shoes anyway let me know
down in the comments and if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't go anywhere just yet we have
over 2,000 cool videos for you to check
out all you have to do is pick the left
or right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life